Hotline League is brought to you by
opened by HP yeah I know he's got an
Omega wall profile on horizon is on the
call horizon where he called from from
Chile from Chile hey great to have you
on have you been on before no never
okay nice I think we've had another
Chilean caller before but it's great to
hear from you what time is it there when
the aim wanna a.m. okay well thank you
for for being up this late
what do you want to talk about on the
show tonight well and I want to talk
about like how I think that right not
having the custom Valley on site is a
disgrace for the scene especially when
you compared to dia not only that they
are something that people saying that
that's okay
have no idea what this means for the
scene and the owners okay what does it
mean for the scene and the owners I mean
I'm not saying like oh my god League is
dying but I think if you're an owner
especially first let's say like nature
and you see okay I paid 13 million to
get in LCS and now I'm seen riot not
paying to have the gas tinkling on Korea
and and they're like hmm why didn't I go
to overwatch League then I see the
sponsor Chiefs and I think the same then
I see the price ball from ti and I think
well maybe I just wrong you know yeah
well the news they could not get into
dota
unfortunately so even if they see the
price point I think that's a place for
them to be disappointed but it's not
like there's a dota franchise league but
I mean should we like Kelby just do his
thing and then we can actually have a
conversation about this great
impassioned points I just don't know
like what it is that why why do you
think horizon that like other Latin
American called caller see like what is
it about them that like you guys just
have such great points passionate about
eSports maybe
yeah I mean like because I'm from Chile
and I'm an a Nathan it hurts even more
because I'm from an away well card Union
and it already sucks here so seeing it
suck everyone else everywhere else it's
like okay okay indeed yes I think it
comes down to food like Americans are
really lazy alright whatever let's let's
not get it - there's a borderline
offensive qele qele be what is your take
you've been thinking about this yeah
well so I I think I'm probably gonna
take a slightly different perspective on
it then you guys might have and like I
don't I don't want to just do like a
rant thing so like feel free cuz I could
just talk forever about stuff sure um
I'm kind of most concerned about the
dialogue that's been going on here with
franchising because I think that horizon
is right the the team owners perspective
is is very very curious to me it's it's
evident now to all of us and through the
post that happened tonight on the
subreddit that riot is taking a more
fiscally responsible let's say approach
to how they're operating their eSports
business why is this change happening
now especially after the team's just
bought in ten million dollars apiece
into franchising because that's an
influx of revenue that they hadn't had
up to this point and certainly when you
have people committing long term to the
success of this and the everybody wants
to get their money back right that's
that's why they're here they're not just
doing it as like a charity donation like
you know that they see some business
interest in this it seems like a very
very weird and unfortunate time for
these team owners that riots riot starts
scaling back on things and putting less
investment into the space their their
resume their reducing cost as they said
without as we've seen any significant
increase in revenue so tell me what if
what if the answer is well of course
we're going to be more fiscally
responsible
we just got ten new
partners we need to make these guys
money and if we keep spending money like
we have in the past there's no profit to
share with them and they're gonna be
dissatisfied yeah for sure so are they
set up on a profit share bottle or a
revenue share model because obviously
that would affect things right as far as
what you're looking for and we're can
you explain because I think a lot of
people won't understand the right so if
you're on a revenue share model then
it's in the team's interest for Riot to
not scale back these things and to keep
them the way that there are so that the
property is more attractive to drive
more revenue to the league if you're on
a profit share model then yes that
argument can be made that in scaling
back our costs we get closer to
break-even because we're spending right
now more than we're making so cutting
back on cost is actually more important
to you getting a cut of something as
opposed to a revenue share model where
in the team's best interest may be known
Riots profitability interest you know
like the teams would just want things to
say as big as possible so that there's
more sponsor money but but the thing is
Travis is that trying to be fiscally
responsible like you need to generate
some revenue to go along with this
cutting of costs which we just haven't
seen anything up to this point and I'm
curious and have expressed many times on
the show my disappointment with their
seemingly lack of effort in trying to do
anything to garner revenue the BAM Tech
deal was a complete failure they like
twitch was an apparent and ready partner
that went to overwatch did this really
awesome thing that's making the money is
they're paying a shit ton to Activision
Blizzard for it that riot passed on and
they're not doing anything in
sponsorships I can promise you
considering my job is sponsorship sales
in this industry that riot has a very
very attractive inventory to brands that
would love to be
sponsors of this property in the space
it's not like overwatch which had zero
broadcast history up to this point was
able to go out and evangelize so much
better to these brands that they were
like you know what we've heard this
pitch from riot before and we didn't
really get it but now
overwatch league we think this is our
entry point into sponsoring any sports
leagues no riot has had these
opportunities to generate revenue around
their league and they've had them for a
very very long time and you have a
history built out you have narratives
you have identified properties star
players with much greater reach and
social followings than what you seen
overwatch and you're not making any
effort to get it done it doesn't exist
so if you are now as you've stated
publicly focusing on running a more
fiscally responsible property why aren't
you trying to generate any revenue why
are you just cutting costs because as a
team owner if I was so team owner in the
LCS that would really piss me off I
don't know what the communications have
been like between riot and the team
owners about this but what's going on
what's the plan to chime in slightly the
assumption that riot is not attempting
to generate more revenue at posts just
cutting costs probably isn't true but
where is it then mark the success not
hard to go out and sell these deals you
have very attractive inventory as I've
identified I know for a fact then we amp
they're different
yep yeah I know for a fact that there
are brands that have tried and want to
sponsor LCS very badly they have these
opportunities I don't know what the
holdup is for them as far as why they
don't want this money
but overwatch League is doing it why is
overwatch league doing it and riot isn't
that I cannot answer you I just was only
chiming in that yeah this statement that
they're not trying it's probably not
right
but the fact that there's a complete it
was it was a slaughter in terms of like
sponsor yeah yeah yeah if they're trying
but failing that poorly and overwatch
League is having that success with a
weaker inventory then you have gross
incompetence going on
I could sell LCS super fucking easily
I'm not like amazing in the space I'm
pretty good at my job
but it would not be hard for me to get
considerable revenue generated for LCS
there has to be some sort of internal
barrier or mandate that is keeping them
from selling this property to brands as
far as what they're willing to do on the
deliverable side the budget amounts that
they're looking for something is holding
them back there are people that want to
give riot money its has been the number
one esports property in the world for a
really really long period of time it's
not hard to sell that shit it's really
easy so what's the problem I want to
know yes and the wrong guy I just say in
front of the camera I mean I think
there's a couple things here one was
this was clearly not a like these are
not excuses but I think the explanation
would be that this has not been a
priority for riot that Activision
Blizzard probably had a much stronger
sales team go to market and probably
were much more willing to make
compromises on the broadcast I mean when
you go to insist on the broadcast but in
the experience when you go to overwatch
League I've heard that there's a guy who
yells about sour patch kids and gives
people out sour patch kids I think
that's totally acceptable but riot who
has been obsessed with player experience
and sometimes to their detriment
probably in this case they probably are
rather reticent to do that and it comes
probably from it like overwatch League
was spearheaded so much we all know bye
bye
Kotick who's the CEO and sees this is
and overwatch Li exists because he saw
this as a major source of revenue in the
future right like we can make money off
of video games but we can also turn our
video game IPs into this source of
revenue and all these other different
areas and and the rumor is that they'll
come out with series and all the stuff
but let sports being able to build your
own sport is a huge opportunity for them
and so for right out the gate
this was not like a feature that
Blizzard was trying to build or
Activision Blizzard was trying to build
this was like a a franchised sports
league that generates money and my
frustration is that Riot I think for a
while has known that that was the
direction they needed to head but they
didn't pivot fast enough in the sales
and monetization efforts I don't know if
that's because they had more faith in
Bamm tech apparently sound and I know
we've got a Bama tech caller coming but
I don't know if that's because they had
more faith in bam Tech's ability to sell
the stock okay just for now yeah ever so
I don't know if they they felt sorry
twitch chat blowing up I don't know if
they they just had all their eggs in
that basket and if it fell through for
reasons we will probably never know and
that's what happened but it is certainly
disheartening now to see them make the
argument of we need to save money
because we're revenue oriented and they
don't have this and by the way Kelby
like you you mentioned you mentioned all
of this from a sponsorship perspective
yeah but it ignores the very immediate
and obvious way to monetize this which
is through deepening the revenue streams
that they already have one potential
sponsorships is one option they can they
can like battle passes I think are like
I play I play fortnight you know twitch
chat they're all gonna get angry when I
say that I play fortnight I buy the
battle fast I bought - all right about
to battle passes twitch yeah chat all
right you can yell at me about it but
there are like a great monetization
strategy yeah
and I could totally see a world same
battle past now maybe they're planning
on making that stuff but it is it is
frustrating when iam man with Kelby
you mentioned something I think earlier
before the show started we were talking
in the skip shadow think of this but one
thing that you pointed out is that right
is no longer leading in the space
we've lost mark right is no longer
leading in the space in this and this
category right in terms of innovating in
the eSports space and it sucks to see
them because I I'm a big fan of their
eSports team my big fan of what they do
and I think these people are actually
like they do really care they want to do
amazing stuff and I know that it's easy
to criticize them but I actually do
think that they are trying hard it's
it's so frustrating to see them fall
behind in so many different areas in the
digital space for monetization options
for sponsorships etc it's just very
frustrating yeah one one thing I will
say is that so for all of the people
responsible for putting these things on
it riot none of this is any of their
fault nobody on the production team or
organized or I would say with like 95%
confidence nobody on the production team
or the event side or anybody like comes
in to like end-of-the-year recap
meetings and it's like you know what
next year I'd like to do less except for
Marcus maybe I want for less you know we
want to do it less cool like I firmly
believe in my time with working at riot
or not at riot with riot that there are
a ton of people still in the
organization that I really really like
and they want to do cool shit like that
company doesn't get where it's at if you
don't care about stuff but it certainly
feeds into the larger narrative about
the profitability of the game and what
the ownership of Riot Games the company
who ultimately is responsible for
writing the checks now is mandating down
it's like hey this is a really big
expense for us and your game if this is
this is pure inference but this is
certainly what it feels like because
otherwise why do they change any of this
you know none of these people just like
decide to scale it back for no reason if
you have the money they'll spend the
money to do it right but it certainly
feeds into the narrative that like you
know mmm
this game is performing super well and
you're on the track to run a deficit
like we need to scale back costs and
start thinking more is the sustainable
business instead of a startup which is
directly referenced in this post yeah
well listen we have a Chilean caller on
the line right now horizon I don't know
as we've been ranching for a little bit
but what do you what do you think about
all this stuff I know you mentioned it's
a disgrace do you think team owners
should be concerned what I don't know
what what would you like to see change I
mean I don't know actually what from
it's a good answer that's always my I
actually love this game you know and I
love the competitive scene and it's sad
to see it scale down I don't know maybe
it's like actually a good choice or like
it's economically responsible but I
don't know it doesn't bring me hype it
doesn't make me happy for the future
load but I don't know hey yeah I think
go oh god mark yeah this is after that
long rant where I had to disappear for a
little bit hopefully I'm you can't be
seen on screen with Kelly yeah hopefully
I'll still still be alive
for world's everybody but well they
Vettius cleared a spot for you today so
I think you're good Jesus
I gotta start watching European games
[Laughter]
but I think that's that's what horizon
said the very end I think you know how I
feel about it for the most part is like
just maybe it is physically spot
responsible to quell this point there's
probably a lot more that could have been
done in previous years and stuff like
that and even to this day maybe there's
definitely more that can be being done
and so even if this is
the right thing for them to be doing in
the new franchise model and everything
it still feels fucking bad for a fan and
there's no way to sell this to a fan and
not have it taste bad yep especially
when your fans are aware of your you
know lack of people have been saying
where are the sponsors for years myself
included but also just for like random
bright at threads and stuff like this
has been a conversation for a long time
I just want to echo what horizon said a
second ago by the way which is a great
point like I think look I'm sure if
somebody from Riot is watching this or
if they watch the vibe like they'll have
already turned it off by the point in
time when Kelby said that he could sell
LCS better than they have but wait I
that's why would you be upset at that
I'm not I'm not saying I've just it's
it's a it's a funny
it's a funny remark don't worry tell me
yeah this is a safe place um I I was
just gonna say but this is all like
these conversations occur and these
opinions occur because like I love this
game I love the scene around it like all
my friends that I hang out with on a
daily basis are attached to this thing
in some way or another and and more
broadly even the people that aren't
directly attached they're part of the
eSports scene right and I I believe that
riot can do this stuff and and beyond my
belief in them I feel like they have a
responsibility to because they are a
trailblazer within the eSports industry
they were the first to do this and and I
think that they're they're falling
behind and I think if they slip you know
they're gonna make it harder for
everyone like I want to keep working
these sports for the next 10 to 20 years
and so I need not just them like I
levied a shit ton of criticism against
silver watch League I still don't think
that their next franchise slots are
worth thirty five million or 40 or 100
million or whatever but jillion dollars
asking for now I'm frustrated that Valve
doesn't do enough to support their games
in my opinion but I'm also frustrated
that riot is failing here and I think
that you know we I I think it's
important for everyone to make
decisions for for the industry to move
forward because horizon is a fan of
league of legends and League of Legends
eSports he wants to be excited about
this stuff and it's hard to be excited
about this and it's also really hard
whenever this it just looks like there's
just a fuckup that's led us to this
point so I don't know
I think I think we probably talked about
it but do you have anything else you
want to say horizon I mean one last
point is that even though I don't think
that over Wesley I don't like over which
I like the game I don't like watching it
but even though I don't think that the
next pots are worth not much
they're very things burned and riot and
Wright had a head start
like or years ago so I don't know yeah
it's kind of disheartening to see that
right is falling behind yep yep and I
feel I hope that they feel disheartened
to that that's the last thing I'll say
on this I don't know if we have another
color but the last thing I want to say
is there was never any ownership in the
post that came out today about their
failure to monetize that's what worries
me the most is that that whenever stuff
like this happens it's always like well
this was all part of the plan and if it
was part of the plan that's worrying to
me
but if you have fucked up and you didn't
handle monetization the way you should
have and you didn't take it seriously
and you're willing to come out and say
this is an area where we failed and we
need to get better and we're doubling
dint like those statements would give me
more faith but statements that kind of
pretend like it was always the plan to
not have the english broadcast out of
Korea this year like years ago like it
was on some sort of long-term goal chart
sucks thanks so much rising for your
call yeah really appreciate you calling
it the final of the pressing capper on
all that of course is that every Empire
crumbles listen mark I don't we don't
need to make this about the u.s. alright
I what about the US that's just about
life do you like Alexander the Great as
least wars for a little while and they
got broken up into three kingdoms
between his sons I don't really know how
that translates metaphorically to this
situation but either way you know
whatever happens my father will break up
his kingdom among me and my two brothers
and hue so you would give part of your
kingdom to doublelift
and Kelby probably right and who else I
don't know I would give none of it to
Peter because that would descend into
anarchy
really quick I don't know who it gives
the other one to I gives the other one
to read it and just let see what happens
you know let's Papa read it yeah